docs/OPERATIONS.md, before:

# Operations

## Systemd Service
Templates are in `contrib/systemd/`:
- `astra.service`
- `astra.env`

Example locations (adjust as needed):
- Binary: `/opt/astra/astra`
- Web UI: `/opt/astra/web`
- Config: `/etc/astra/astra.json`
- Data dir: `/var/lib/astra`

Service command (from template):
```
ExecStart=/opt/astra/astra scripts/server.lua --config ${ASTRA_CONFIG} \
  -p ${ASTRA_HTTP_PORT} --data-dir ${ASTRA_DATA_DIR} --web-dir ${ASTRA_WEB_DIR}
```

## Upgrade Flow
1. Stop service.
2. Backup config and data dir.
3. Deploy new binary and web assets.
4. Run `./configure.sh` and `make` on target if building from source.
5. Start service.
6. Run smoke checks (see `docs/TESTING.md`).

## Backups
- SQLite DB: `data/astra.db` (default).
- Config revisions: `data/backups/config/`.
- Export: `GET /api/v1/export` or `./astra scripts/export.lua`.

## Restore
- Restore `astra.db` and config revisions.
- Or re-import from JSON via `POST /api/v1/import` (merge/replace).

## Logs
- Runtime logs go to stdout or file via `--log`.
- Log retention for UI buffers is controlled by settings.

## Security Notes
- Do not commit secrets (tokens, passwords).
- Use `http_ip_allow` and `http_ip_deny` where possible.

Commit message:

ops: add watchdog installer and templates

docs/OPERATIONS.md, after:

# Operations

## Systemd Service
Templates are in `contrib/systemd/`:
- `astra.service`
- `astra.env`
- `astral-watchdog.service`
- `astral-watchdog.timer`
- `astral-watchdog.env`

Example locations (adjust as needed):
- Binary: `/opt/astra/astra`
- Web UI: `/opt/astra/web`
- Config: `/etc/astra/astra.json`
- Data dir: `/var/lib/astra`

Service command (from template):
```
ExecStart=/opt/astra/astra scripts/server.lua --config ${ASTRA_CONFIG} \
  -p ${ASTRA_HTTP_PORT} --data-dir ${ASTRA_DATA_DIR} --web-dir ${ASTRA_WEB_DIR}
```

## Watchdog (CPU/RAM)
The watchdog restarts the process if it exceeds CPU or RSS thresholds for
several consecutive checks.

Install:
```
sudo scripts/ops/install_watchdog.sh
```

Configuration:
- `/etc/astral-watchdog.env`
- Defaults: `CPU_LIMIT=300`, `RSS_LIMIT_MB=1500`, `HITS_THRESHOLD=2`
- You can also set `ASTRA_CMD` or `ASTRA_PGREP` for custom run patterns.

Status:
```
systemctl status astral-watchdog.timer
journalctl -u astral-watchdog.service -n 50
```

## Upgrade Flow
1. Stop service.
2. Backup config and data dir.
3. Deploy new binary and web assets.
4. Run `./configure.sh` and `make` on target if building from source.
5. Start service.
6. Run smoke checks (see `docs/TESTING.md`).

## Backups
- SQLite DB: `data/astra.db` (default).
- Config revisions: `data/backups/config/`.
- Export: `GET /api/v1/export` or `./astra scripts/export.lua`.

## Restore
- Restore `astra.db` and config revisions.
- Or re-import from JSON via `POST /api/v1/import` (merge/replace).

## Logs
- Runtime logs go to stdout or file via `--log`.
- Log retention for UI buffers is controlled by settings.

## Security Notes
- Do not commit secrets (tokens, passwords).
- Use `http_ip_allow` and `http_ip_deny` where possible.
